I told him that I will always en
that Israel is able to defend it
including from Iran and Iran bac
militias such as Hamas and Hezbo
From when I was a young girl
collecting funds
to plant trees for Israel.
To my time in the United States
and now at the white House.
I have had an unwavering commitm
to the existence of the State of
to its security,
and to the people of Israel.
I've said it many times,
but it bears repeating.
Israel has a right to defend its
and how it does so matters.
Hamas is a brutal terrorist orga
On October 7th, Hamas triggered
when it massacred 1200 innocent
including 44 Americans.
Hamas has committed
horrific acts of sexual violence
and took 250 hostages.
There are American citizens
who remain captive in Gaza.
Soggy taco
hen Hirsch Goldberg, Poland.
Edan Alexander,
Keith Siegel,
Omar Neutra
and the remains of American citi
Judy Weinstein, God, a Guy and I
hen are still being held in Gaza
I have met with the families
of these American hostages
multiple times now,
and I've told them each time
they are not alone,
and I stand with them.
And President
Biden and I are working every da
to bring them home.
I also expressed with the Prime
my serious concern
about the scale of human
suffering in Gaza,
including the death of far
too many innocent civilians.
And I made clear my serious conc
about the dire
humanitarian situation there.
With over 2 million people facin
high levels of food insecurity
and half a million people
facing catastrophic levels of ac
food insecurity.
What has happened in
Gaza over the past
nine months is devastating.
The images of dead children
and desperate, hungry people
fleeing for safety, sometimes di
for the second, third or fourth
We cannot look away
in the face of these tragedies.
We cannot allow ourselves
to become numb to the suffering.
And I will not be silent.
Thanks to the leadership
of our president, Joe Biden,
there is a deal on the table
for a ceasefire and a hostage de
And it is important that we reca
what the deal involves.
The first phase of the deal
would bring about a full ceasefi
including a withdrawal
of the Israeli military
from population centers in Gaza.
In the second phase, the Israeli
with withdraw from Gaza entirely
and it would lead to a permanent
to the hostilities.
It is time for this war to end
and to end in a way
where Israel is secure.
All the hostages are released.
The suffering of Palestinians
in Gaza ends,
and the Palestinian people
can exercise their right to free
dignity and self-determination.
There has been hopeful movement
in the talks
to secure an agreement on this d
And as I just told
Prime Minister Netanyahu,
it is time to get this deal done
So to everyone who has been
calling for a ceasefire
and to everyone who yearns for p
I see you and I hear you.
Let's get the deal done
so we can get a ceasefire to end
Let's bring the hostages home
and let's provide much needed re
the Palestinian people.
And ultimately, I remain
committed to a path forward
that can lead to a two state sol
And I know right now it is hard
to conceive of that prospect.
But a two state solution is the
that ensures Israel remains a se
Jewish and democratic state,
and one that ensures
Palestinians can finally realize
the freedom, security and prospe
that they rightly deserve.
And I will close with this.
Then.
It is important
for the American people to remem
the war in Gaza is not a binary
However, too often
the conversation is binary
when the reality is anything but
So I ask my fellow Americans
to help encourage efforts
to acknowledge the complexity,
the nuance,
and the history of the region.
Let us all condemn
terrorism and violence.
Let us all do what we can to pre
the suffering of innocent civili
and let us condemn antisemitism,
Islamophobia, and hate of any ki
and let us work to unite our cou
I thank you for that, Vice presi
Madam Vice President,
after after your meeting,
are you convinced that
the Prime Minister
would like a fire deal?
All right.
There you heard Vice
President Harris
as well as a presidential candid
Harris, as of this week.
talking after meeting with
Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu of Israel, saying
Israel has a right to defend its
but we cannot allow ourselves
to be numb to the suffering in G
She said it is time for the war
And she conveyed that
to Benjamin Netanyahu as well.
Let's bring in Kayla Telsey
from the white House.
Kayla, some strong words
there from the vice president
after her meeting.
And it obviously
is coming at an interesting
political moment for her as well
Pam, it's
been the clearest distillation y
that we've seen of Vice Presiden
Harris's own beliefs
and views on this situation.
And I think there's
one line in particular
that sums it up best,
and that is toward the top.
When she said
Israel has a right to defend its
and how it does so matters.
She's
speaking to those who want to se
defend itself
and want this war to end,
and also those who want to seek
And she says in no uncertain ter
I hear you,
and I see you to those on all si
of this argument
and this debate
that has inflamed divisions
in this country
as well as around the world,
these are the most forceful word
and the
perhaps the clearest position
that's been laid out on this sit
from this administration so far,
and certainly from the vice
president herself.
And it's worth
noting that
because in listening
to some of her comments up
until this point, aides
of hers, administration official
and those who know her
very well have noted that
substantively, she's not differe
from President Biden on this top
But tonally, rhetorically,
she is that she has a tendency
to speak more forcefully on this
that at times has raised
eyebrows inside the white House.
But then when you look
at the substance of the remarks,
they're actually not that differ
She is now at a crossroads
where she has to decide
what her nuance is on this issue
whether she wants to break
from Biden's position
or whether she wants to stay the
with what the administration
has laid out. Fulsomely so far.
This appearance tonight
appears to be her saying,
this is where I'm going
to be on this matter,
that Israel has a right to defen
and how it does so matters,
and that for people
on all sides of this debate
that she hears them and she sees
Pam. All right. Kayla, thank you
And for more reaction to Vice
President Harris's comments,
I want to bring in
Democratic Congressman
Jason Crow, Colorado.
First off, what is your reaction
What we just heard from Harris.
Well, I agree with your colleagu
that the
the line that we support Israel,
but how it does so matter.
that is a key element to this,
that we can both stand with Isra
and help it defend itself,
but it has to do so consistent
with its values
at the level of civilian
casualties has been unacceptable
and untenable.
And the humanitarian catastrophe
in Gaza
is also not aligned
with our values and our interest
And then finally, her
calling on the American people
to embrace the complexity
of the situation
and the history here
is also really important.
You know,
we have to be able to have
that confidence,
that confidence
to have that conversation.
What's this,
a stronger
stance on Palestinian suffering
than we have heard
from President Biden
in almost ten months of this war
In your view?
Now, I wouldn't compare
it to President Biden.
President Biden has handled this
in a very complicated
and a very strong way.
but he's clearly
articulating her views on this
and saying
that we need to have a conversat
going forward about the complexi
Right.
Calling on the release of the ho
saying that we have
to find a path forward to peace.
This conflict has evolved
and has evolved from day one to
you know, 270 now, at this point
we have to make sure that we're
in our conversation along the li
Earlier this week, her campaign
that was still
defining her stance over the the
you heard
Harris
say how Israel prosecutes
this war matters.
You just talked about that.
Does that signal to you that she
you know, substantially change h
toward Israel
compared to Biden, using more le
against Netanyahu's government,
especially considering
she's now a presidential candida
I think what it
means is that
she is going to continue to adap
as the circumstances change.
What I learned in war,
I served as an Army Ranger in Ir
and Afghanistan is that day
one is different from day 90
and and different from day 180.
Wars and conditions change.
And as a leader,
you have to have the ability
to be able to adapt
to those changing conditions.
So she, very clearly, conveyed
a desire
to actually understand
what's going on
and to adapt as necessary going
and to embrace, again
that complexity of the situation
that we can hold
several truths at the same time
that one of these truths is
we will stand by
and defend the state of Israel.
At the same time,
it has to do so consistent
with our interests and our value
in the values of the American pe